Now  build mechanism for decision making, concluding, making choice, understanding above sugestions or commands.
R = Request - Find and decide which way to go from current location back home
G can use GPS or any other tracking system with maps software available / connected / build in. Some systems do give couple of answers - depending on dystance, kinds of transport, time, date and individual, user pre-learned preferences 
CQ = Conversatory Question - Which way in many possible (will) 'we' go to the destination. 
Additional information for G (System) - Answer / Choice / Decision cannot be based on the distance, most comfortable or the only available. There are many different factors, very often more important the geo data facts.
R - choose different way than the shortest and give the reason / factor / circumstance of diffrent path / track / route to the destination point.
CR - Conversatory Request. G (System) cannot ask human for other factors that can decide about the route. The reason with explicit has to be found by G.
There are allowed questions from G that will help to develop / creatw the Own Will Leaded mechanism / formula / module (formula for software, module for hardware - for example GPS or WiFi allocation)
Crisis Q and A (Answer) allowed when no approved answer given.
Answer is to the question how to make own decision. (do we Know? haha, do we think of the nature of common sense but advanced to the level of Own Will with Reason Leaded.
 
Q from G - Teach / Explain / Help to develop / contruct enviromentt able to utilise all processes that result in similiar to inteligent human decisions made :)))
 
Sample action.
 
If there are 2 ways back home shown on the electronic map, and one is much longer but time rush is not a factor, and cannot be accepted as the reason.
Reason is - If G will make The Decision - G (you) will solve the task / learn / develop / earn / upgrade etc. itself. This is in every, intelligent like software, in the root memory program - collecting data, order analisin and formaulating .
G should understand that this time consuming - second option, is an investment, as it succedes in other, not recognised yet dimension. Also it is an development for machine that didn't do that before of the new dimension / development level. It is not a numbered value, volume, resource / has not equall replacement / time limit / estimates, it's invisible even for human. Reason to do something longer is easy to understand once experienced. For machine it will be excluded straight forward even whith much more advanced, but related by volumes, numbers, access calculations.
H (Human) asking G - what is the result of spending more time for getting to the destination. 
G... (answer formulated by machine or applies relatively to the unit dimensional development level)
